Title: AST

-----

Alias: Abstract Syntax Tree

-----

Description: Source code usually contains parts which only serve to make the structure of the source code recognizable but don’t have any actual significance, e.g. semicolons, commas, or brackets/parentheses. An abstract syntax tree is a derived tree in which all those redundant elements have been removed because they’re not necessary.

-----

Authors: rasshofer

-----

Text:

Basically, it comes down to the difference between »concrete syntax« and »abstract syntax«.

- Concrete syntax: derived tree which contains elements that are only necessary to recognize the structure
- Abstract syntax: derived tree which contains an abstraction of elements that aren’t essential for semantics

It’s »concrete« because the structure is a grammatical copy of the code/text, token by token, just in a tree format.

An AST only contains information that is related to analyzing the source code/text and ignores any kind of extra syntactic information used for parsing the code/text.

It’s a figurative representation of a code, allowing to understand the structure of a code and thus its elements and showing the relationship between the individual elements/parts. We can then query it the same way we query DOM elements in JavaScript with `querySelectorAll`, for example. This allows compilers/transpilers (e.g. [Babel](https://babeljs.io/)) to »understand« source code and apply specific transformations to it accordingly.

Usually, ASTs are defined in a specific standard/specification for each programming language. For example, the JavaScript AST follows the (github: estree/estree) specification.

[astexplorer.net](https://astexplorer.net/) is a great web-based tool to explore the AST representations generated by various parsers for all sorts of programming languages.

(image: astexplorer.png bordered: true)
